.TH xpointerbarrier 1 "2020-06-27" "xpointerbarrier" "User Commands"
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
xpointerbarrier \- Create pointer barriers around your working area
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBxpointerbarrier\fP
[\fItop\fP
\fIleft\fP
\fIright\fP
\fIbottom\fP | \fB\-k\fP]
[\fB\-v\fP]
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program creates four pointer barriers around each XRandR screen,
thus effectively jailing your mouse pointer to one physical screen.
.P
These barriers cannot be passed. This means that you need a tool that
calls \fBXWarpPointer()\fP in order to move the pointer to another
screen. Some window managers do this for you. Another alternative is to
use the tool \fBswarp\fP(1) from suckless.org.
.P
\fBxpointerbarrier\fP will monitor changes to the screen layout and
adapt to newly connected screens.
.P
\fBxpointerbarrier\fP must remaing running for the barriers to stay
alive. As soon as the program exits, the barriers disappear.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
\fItop\fP, \fIleft\fP, \fIright\fP, and \fIbottom\fP specify the insets
of the barriers on each screen in pixels. You will usually want to
configure this in such a way that it matches up with your window
decorations when using a tiling window manager.
.P
If \fB\-k\fP is specified instead of individual insets, then the program
will read the special property \fB_KATRIA_INSETS\fP from the root
window. \fBkatriawm\fP(1) will store precalculated insets there.
.P
\fB\-v\fP enables verbose output. It must be the last argument.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SIGNALS
When the process receives \fBSIGUSR1\fP, it will toggle its
\(lqactive\(rq state: If there are active barriers, then they will be
destroyed, otherwise barriers will be created.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B DISPLAY
Target display.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH LICENSE
\fBxpointerbarrier\fP is released under the MIT license. See the
accompanying \fILICENSE\fP file.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH HISTORY
\fBxpointerbarrier\fP was originally written by Peter Hofmann. The
project was started in December 2015.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR katriawm (1),
.BR swarp (1).
